## Abstract
Traffic lights that dynamically adapt their phase duration, according to the situation on the intersection, are widely used for optimizing traffic flows. Although the minimum and maximum duration of a phase are published in Flanders,
a predicted duration with a certain confidence would increase the reusability of traffic lights data for route planners.
We tested for a live Open traffic lights dataset of Antwerp how frequency distributions of phase durations (i) can be used to predict the duration of the current phase and (ii) can be created client-side and on-the-fly with a demonstrator.
An overall mean average error (MAE) of 5.1 seconds is reached by using the median for predictions. A distribution is created for every time slot of 20 minutes and per day. This is better than expected, because phase durations can have a spectrum between a few seconds and over two minutes.
When taking the remaining time until the phase changes into account, we see a MAE flattening around 10 seconds when the remaining time is less than a minute. As most phases take less than a minute, route planning over an intersection underneath a minute becomes feasible.  
Unfortunately, the MAE grows linear for phases longer than a minute, thus our prediction method is useless when this happens. 
In future work, we investigate how other Open Datasets (crowdedness counters, public transport...) can be reused to find correlations with these exceptionally long phase durations. This way, the prediction error would be bounded to a certain level leaving very high error rates only for real emergencies.